if you can't think outside the box
you're not gonna win because everyone's
always going to have more money than you
everyone's always going to have more
resources than you more style more time
other people have started before you if
you don't think outside the box it's
going to be hard to win
and what time do you wake up now Neil
after that you're taking care of your
children too so I think earlier you said
6 a.m in the morning so what's the time
today
uh roughly around 5 30 is when they wake
up
that's nice
and the first thing is any information
that you practice any gratitude Journal
no like that that's I know I know what
you do you you keep your you keep your
laptop next to you and the first thing
that you do is you wake up with your
laptop yes
yep
nice I like that that's Neil but you'll
feel ladies and gentlemen
who is equally addicted as me to his
phone and laptops so let's have some fun
conversation with him today okay Neil
first question to you today
work life balance a digital marketing
person has this challenge do you have
something to say
yeah digital marketer it's not just
digital marketers everyone has a
work-life balance if you truly love what
you're doing and you want to do well at
it because if you want to do well at it
you got to put in tons of time and
energy and effort into it so you're not
going to have the work-life balance that
you want especially at the beginning see
later on in your career sure you can
create more of a work-life balance but
it is very hard to do so when you're
starting off and you want to climb to
the top whether it's as an entrepreneur
or whether it is in a profession working
for another company and even later on
your career sure you can create more of
a balance but in many cases you'll find
that you're still working a lot of hours
and you know you may not have the
balance that some of your friends have
it's the sacrifice of trying to do well
in any profession
it's not what people want to hear but
it's the truth
cool so you're trying to say work is
life
work is life and yes you need to create
time for your family and other things in
life but I think the mistake people make
forget this concept of work-life balance
I know a lot of people have work-life
balance but when their kids are there
and they want to play with them they
just turn on the TV
I think of life as whatever you do put
in 110 so when you spend time with your
kids make it count when you are hanging
out with your friends make account pay
attention really be them for or be there
for them when you're working again make
it count and I think that's the mistake
people have is they think work-life
balance is all about putting in hours
into different buckets but when they put
in these hours into different buckets
they're not really making those hours
count and they're very inefficient and
they're not getting much value out of
that time
well I told you I totally agree to what
you just said you said that um
when you're beginning when you're
beginning your career there's no
work-life balance and you need to make
those sacrifices so that you can have
enough work-life balance with time so
that's very good thought up there
um
uh Neil there is a I strongly believe
that people who are digitally edited
they make good digital marketers how
true is that fact
uh not necessarily I found that the
people who make the best digital
marketers are the ones who tend to be
very creative
the ones you think outside the box just
because you're familiar with the digital
landscape or how things work
if you can't think outside the box
you're not going to win because
everyone's always going to have more
money than you everyone's always going
to have more resources than you more
staff more time other people have
started before you if you don't think
outside the box it's going to be hard to
win it's that simple
so creativity is the key uh to become a
good digital marketer yes
and how can someone learn creativity
that I don't know I just think you know
I honestly don't have the answer to that
I think for a lot of people it's in them
or it's not you know it's just like how
do you teach that little kid hey you
want to go buy this bicycle you need to
make money go create lemonade and sell
it you know to all your neighbors that
kind of stuff is hard to teach you know
it's just like some people have it in
them some people don't
um what I found that can help spur some
creativity it doesn't mean you're
naturally going to be creative is to
read look at examples of what other
people are doing study competitors study
people in different Industries because
it'll give you ideas in marketing and
you can take some of the concepts that
work for other people in different
Industries and apply it to yours
that's nice
um let's say if someone is good at
communication it's not good at
communication all right
um
which stream of digital do you recommend
because a lot of people who wants to
become digital marketers in India they
don't they don't really have good
communication skills and I believe along
with creativity that you have added
right now communication is equally
important now let's say if they're not
good at communication which streams of
digital do you think they should be
looking into
none you need to communicate well for
any profession it doesn't matter if it's
digital or not digital but the beautiful
part about communication is it's much
easier to fix in creativity so don't go
to sleep every night until all your
emails are answered putt slack Skype uh
text messaging Etc all on your phone
WhatsApp so when people message you have
the notifications make time to respond
within 5 10 15 minutes 30 at the latest
or hour at the latest if you're in a
meeting but just get into a habit that
you need to check your messages and
respond each and every single day if you
still struggle with that then what I
recommend doing is within your calendar
block off 10 minutes out of every single
hour just to communicate with people
so if you start practicing some of these
things you can get better at
communicating that's really easy to fix
creativity is much harder but
communication it can be fixed and then
you can in theory do any form of digital
marketing or anything
awesome so when I meant communication I
loved your understanding of
communication but when I meant
communication here I meant a lot of
people have poor English did not really
good at that and that's where the lack
is for a lot of people who wanting to
become digital marketers people who
don't have great English communication
skills what do you recommend to them
that's my question
focus on the language that you know so
in India there's a lot of different
dialects right but a lot of people know
Hindi Hindi is a great language to
Market in who says you have to Market in
English a lot of people in this world
speak Hindi so figure out the languages
that you are proficient at and you could
do any form of digital marketing within
there and carve your Niche because
people will want marketers who
specialize in specific languages
marketing is global it's not hey we just
Market in English majority of the world
does not speak English
right
okay Neil that's always
changes the digital world brings to us
how does one deal with the uncertainty
like right from the uncertainty of
algorithms uh beat search algorithms be
it Instagram algorithms there's always
an uncertainty how do you deal with that
and what is your tip for people on
dealing with these uncertainties
yeah so it's funny someone actually
asked me this yesterday and uh I was
talking about my favorite you know
marketing channel
and I told them and they're like oh is
it sem I'm like no my favorite marketing
channel is Omni Channel marketing and
they're like which one is omitom like
it's all of them
see what I've learned over the years is
algorithms change sometimes they benefit
you but majority of the times they don't
favor you
and you can't control if Instagram's
gonna change your algorithm or Facebook
or Google or YouTube or any other
platform out there but what you can do
is use each and every single platform
out there and use it to your advantage
if the algorithm changes then it doesn't
work as well we'll use it till as much
as it works if you were making you know
a hundred thousand dollars in Revenue a
month from one channel but it went down
to 50. 50 is better than nothing try to
adapt try to fix it and try to get it
back up but accept it for what it is you
know even though you're trying to adapt
and take the approach that channels are
gonna change it's going to be harder for
you but you need to keep adding more and
more channels and you're not going to
make the majority of your revenue from
one of them but every little bit adds up
you gotta chip away at it
wow
this is a really cool thought of daddy
Neil right now in India d2c market is
fairly booming up with time
um after covet a lot of brands have
started stepping into d2c direct to
Consumers and that's booming and a very
interesting Arena to be in
let's say if at this point of time you
have to give them three strong strategic
advice because considering today you
have to give them three strong strategy
advice to all the d2c brands what would
that be
so number one is take multiple payment
options so for example
um in India I believe Cod is still
really popular right cash on delivery
but have multiple payment options when
you take multiple payment options for
example when we saw in India if we also
had PayPal we saw roughly 18 increase in
Revenue so by adding multiple payment
options you quickly see more Revenue
the second one is is obsess about your
product
see indeed to see everyone believes that
the way you make money is influencer
marketing and SEO and email and all this
kind of stuff and that's true but the
way you build a massive Commerce company
is Word of Mouth marketing the only way
you're going to get Word of Mouth
marketing is if your products are really
amazing so when people give you
critiques or feedback saying they don't
like this about your pocket they want
that change
if it's valid don't take it offensive
change it fix it make it better and in
the long run that'll cause more
referrals right natural referrals of
people just saying hey we need to
recommend X Y and Z product
um from sirov or Neil or whatever it may
be
and the third thing that you need to do
is it's all about the follow-up see
everyone optimizes in d2c for the first
sale
but they don't optimize for the repeat
purchases if you look at Flipkart you
look at Amazon you look at all the
players that are jumping into the
e-commerce market and have been there
for many many years the way they make
the majority of their revenue is not
from a sale they make it from you
continually going back and purchasing
over and over again now do you use
Amazon or do you use Flipkart which one
do you use
I use Amazon most case and Flipkart if
that's a good offer okay so use Amazon
how many times have you purchased from
Amazon
almost every other day any need for that
matter be it even the green tea if I
have to order I pick it from Amazon okay
so hundreds of times right
yes yes so the way they're making their
money is not that you're purchasing once
you're purchasing over and over again
now in your d2c brand you're not going
to get someone to purchase hundreds of
times like Amazon but you can't get them
to purchase three times four times and
it drastically changes your economics
and your marketing and your Roi it's
cheaper to generate more revenue and
it's easier to do so from your existing
customers than it is to go and acquire
new customers so focus on promotions for
every major holiday following up through
text message and email right adding more
other ancillary products that you can
upsell to your customers these are all
examples of how you get people to keep
purchasing over and over again over the
years fantastic I love I totally agree
to all the three points that you have
said retention marketing is the new cool
and everybody's focusing on that which
two
have you been using for your clients for
activating Omni Channel marketing for
e-commerce or understanding the behavior
of buyers and accordingly triggering
content or communication to them how do
you do that
yeah so there's not one tool use
multiple tools for email you can use
MailChimp uh for SMS you can end up
using tools like manychat same with
messenger you can use them as well and
for SEO there's a lot of tools out there
like uber suggests for example is one or
even Google search console
um you can you know for paid advertising
you're going to want to use each
platform directly uh for social media
management you could end up using buffer
or HootSuite or Sprout social the list
goes on and on you're going to end up
using a wide variety of tools to get
your Omni Channel marketing done
awesome so right now in India they're
tools which Zoho or web engage is trying
to bring
and the objective of these tools are
largely to have United uh channel uh
communication strategy where all the
channels are together and the triggers
are happening through these so if you
have some tools like that which you
believe is slowly picking up like a
global Trend like how Uber suggest has
picked up from a search perspective do
you think any tool from that person like
have you said multiple different tools
but is there any one tool that you
recommend
yeah I haven't seen any one leader if I
had to pick one it would be HubSpot they
can do and add features for every single
Channel
um okay the most well-known and popular
one that has been focusing on
omnichannel before anyone else right
awesome so Neil Neil I have seen one
thing uh I have met so many digital
marketing agency heads uh and so many
digital marketers and I see them they're
very anxious people anxiety or they
don't know how to keep their mind calm
what is your Mantra meal that you would
tell them what is that one thing that
you do that you would recommend them to
keep their mind calm because this is one
of the most important thing that I
believe is to fix that is important in
the life of a digital marketer
so there's like a mantra that I go by
and I believe right when things are
going really well for you
there's always someone else out there
who has it better than you when things
are going really bad for you there's
always someone out there who has a much
worse than you
now on both ends it's very important
because what happens is when things
start going well people get too excited
to get caught up in the emotions and
they lift their foot off the gas pedal
and they don't think as clearly they're
on a high and they think they're
invincible and nothing can affect them
on the flip side when things going down
they're like it's doomsday end of the
world everything is over life is over as
we know it and neither are actually true
you want to say very level-headed so
that way you can make clear precise
decisions
right
that's a very good thought uh Neil there
uh Neil a lot of these young folks are
trying to become digital marketer
they get into digital marketing trying
to get their hands dirty on everything
possible let's say they do SEO for a
year and then they want to do Google ads
the second year then they want to enter
into Facebook ads now
what do you think how important it is
for someone to specialize in one of
these and become master of that one
subject because a lot of people are
uncertain they think that the industry I
need to be they don't know okay if SEO
is going to really be there 10 years
down the line or Google ads is going to
be there 10 years down the line they
want to learn everything possible and
sometimes I feel that that becomes a
challenge in itself because they become
jack of all trades and master of none
what is your take on that it's better to
be a master of one than it is to be a
jack of all trades because right now in
marketing people are hiring people who
can specialize so even though a company
knows that you need omnichannel they're
gonna hire people
to end up focusing on each and every
single Channel individually as they
scale up and grow because that's how you
get the best results
right so how many years do you think a
person should give to one industry
before he shifts to another individual
marketing
industry or Channel
let's say somebody is doing SEO or
somebody's doing Facebook ads and he
specialize in Facebook ads so how many
years do you keep going as long as
possible so if you're doing Facebook ads
eventually you want to expand into all
forms of paid ads on social media and
even let's say maybe Google
um but you would want to First conquer
all the paid social ads if you're doing
SEO eventually you want to figure out
on-page SEO link building content so it
starts expanding here and there but
generally speaking you want to keep
going more in depth to all the other
areas of marketing that affect your main
concentration like content effects SEO
if you're doing paid social on Facebook
you need to learn Instagram too you need
to learn YouTube you need to learn Tick
Tock and the list goes on and on
awesome some amazing thoughts up there
um a lot of digital marketers are trying
to do everything on their own like they
just because there are many people
becoming Freelancers
how important it is to delegate
delegation in the field of digital
marketing to scale up what is your
thought there and what is the advice
that you would like to give to people
delegation is super important if you
don't delegate eventually you won't be
able to scale when you delegate you want
to delegate to people who are better
than you at that specific task if you're
not delegating to people who are better
than you then you're not doing the best
job when it comes to hiring see if you
have to teach someone how to do the job
you're hiring the wrong people
right I totally agree the key with
delegation is you delegate to people who
make it better than how you would have
made it in essence they're improving
that's the key to being a great leader
you hire people who are better than you
that's a perfect advice there and I
think it just changes a lot I started
doing that last four years and just
helps you because you don't have to be
involved much
um I believe Anil digital marketing is a
life skill more than just a marketing
skill anymore considering after pandemic
it has become
or more of survival for many of them and
in fact even for many business owners
what's your take do you think digital
marketing is like a must-have life skill
today what's your take on that no I
don't think it's a must-have life skill
you can hire there's tons of digital
marketers out there I think you need to
do digital marketing in your business if
it's a career path you don't have to be
a marketer ux and design is just as
important or copywriting is just as
important or engineering is just as
important I wouldn't say one profession
is more important than the other it's
more so you should do what you love and
you're passionate about because if you
do what you love and you're passionate
about you're more likely to succeed at
it because you're going to put in the
time and effort and energy
right I totally agree okay Neil since
you study a lot about the global digital
marketing trends which country do you
see is evolving in digital right now and
where do you think India is heading
according to your observation or
analysis that you have possibly done
so we see the majority of the countries
evolving in digital and I'll give you a
prime example of this in America now you
can end up getting fridges with monitors
that are connected to the internet
so think about your fridge actually
having a computer built in eventually
the fridge will order food for you and
it'll have it delivered it's not there
yet but it's that that's where it's
headed even in India look at the boom
that's happened in digital marketing
over the last you know few years alone
it's drastically changed the amount of
big companies coming out of India is
ridiculous there's so many now
um and yeah there's so much potential I
look at India as one of the fastest
growing markets I have massive potential
and an easy way to see this is look
where Venture Capital dollars are going
if you see where Venture Capital dollars
are going India China United States a
lot of parts of Latin America but it's
going around the whole globe but if you
see where the majority of venture
capital dollars are going those are the
countries that have a ton of opportunity
right now that are just students
awesome so if you're listening to us
right now let us know in the comment
which country are you from
Neil
um
do you learn digital marketing every
single day if yes what are your top
resources where do you learn from what
do you read
yeah so I uh don't learn digital
marketing each and every single day
I learned it probably once every two to
three days
um I continually read blogs from
backlinko to search engine land to Moz
the list goes on and on the same ones
that you would see uh but I learned more
actually by studying other players
within my industry and other players
outside of my industry that are doing
unique marketing tactics so for example
just watching TV I settled I see a lot
of d2c e-commerce ads when I see those
ads a lot of times I'll check out their
site what they're doing their Facebook
ad library and see what kind of
campaigns they're running but I learned
by just looking at people in different
spaces now I don't own a d to c e
Commerce company I own an ad agency NP
digital and we're Global we're in India
we're in different parts of the world
and I learned by looking at other
players in different Industries so I
don't just look at let's say other ad
agencies I look at e-commerce companies
other service based companies I look at
maybe accounting company or a trash
company and you can learn on how all
these companies are doing marketing and
see if they're applicable to your
industry
[Music]
have a good talk today
okay Neil
um how do you define a life cycle of a
digital marketer
personally and professionally
so that they're very similar personally
and professionally you just go through
different stages from learning about
marketing uh picking a field that you
want to specialize in mastering it then
eventually you'll expand into more areas
like SEO May expand into content and
then it pretty much starts all over
again because once you start in content
you're learning to master and it keeps
rinse and repeating but here's the big
thing that people mess up in the whole
life cycle it's not how you perceive the
life cycle people mess up because after
they Master one thing they stop they
don't continue to try to learn more and
improve themselves and that's the demise
of your career or your future the moment
you stop learning the moment you think
you know enough there's a moment that
someone's gonna eventually overtake you
whether it's a competitor or someone
else in your space or that role you're
trying to get you got to keep learning
never assume that you know everything
you can always be better you can always
learn more even if someone is Young and
they're starting their career you can
always learn from them as well
that's nice let me ask you a personal
question Neil how spiritual are you as a
person
I'm not too spiritual
because
I love you all night I am amazing
um what are the three things you look
when you hire the talent I've asked this
this before too but I always ask this
because there's always something new
from you when you answer this question
so when I look to hire people I look for
a few things one do they work for other
people in my industry like competitors
in the past if they did great two did
they work there for a while because if
they worked there for a while that means
they're usually loyal you want people
three did they get promoted within that
job at your competitive because they got
promoted that means someone saw them as
valuable see when you interview people
they're always saying I did this I'm the
one who drove these results I was the
best person
you don't know if that's true or not
there's no way for you to really find
out but if they continually got promoted
within that company that means the
company found them valuable and they're
doing a good job and if they worked at a
few of your competitors and they got
promoted in both those companies
multiple times that means both those
companies found them very valuable the
chances are if you hire them you'll find
them valuable as well then I look for
when you're interviewing them because
they teach you new things if they can
teach you new things that's a great sign
then I also look for if they're a player
coach I don't want to hire people who
are just managers I also want to hire
people who can execute and get their
hands dirty and last but not least I
want to make sure they're cultural fit
they're not a cultural fit they're not
going to last or do well in the company
that's true what if you don't find a
cultural effect you're high enough you
know if you hire them and then you
realize they're not cultural fit what do
you do
you get rid of them you fire them sadly
but it's true you shouldn't have hired
them in the first place
that's true I think that's a very
important decision to take that uh when
they're not cultural fit then you should
find them quickly but what I really love
is for a lot of people they think when
they join a digital marketing agency
Millennials out there they jump from one
agency to another or they just stay in
an agency for a year but what people
look forward to when they're hiring you
is how loyal are you and how much growth
have you shown inside in in that
particular role in that particular
company and that's very important some
really key takeaways from the master
himself
Neil what's your favorite dish and what
are you making this morning in breakfast
so I don't eat breakfast I usually skip
it and I eat we'll eat lunch
um my favorite dish to eat for breakfast
or just in general
just in general
garlic naan it's not really a dish but
it's my favorite food garlic naan with
what chicken butter chicken
it can be butter chicken or anything I
just love garlic not I I can eat it all
day okay and you said you skipped your
breakfast because you're doing
intermittent fasting correct so I eat
from 12 to 6.
12 to six and as much as you can or just
how is it no I just eat lunch and dinner
so two meals
and you don't hit Jim is what you told
me last night
uh no I don't hit the gym but I work out
at home every morning I do high
intensity interval training so what are
your values that you truly focus on this
was one of the most important question
which I missed what are your values that
you truly focus on
values in what aspect business personal
life what aspect
um
let's say professionally the values that
you put across that's the first thing
whatever values are values so it can be
personal yeah so yeah always treat other
people with respect doesn't matter
personal professional if you're not
treating people with respect doesn't
matter who they are what color their
skin is if they're male female or
whatever gender they may be or
um you know you just got to treat people
with respect it's you know it's a shitty
thing to treat other people crappy you
wouldn't want that to happen to you
um two always be ethical you know it's a
lot of people will do what benefits them
and they won't be ethical and it's like
if something's not ethical
just don't do it you know
um three always think long term a lot of
people are very short-sighted in
business and even with their personal
life decisions you gotta think very very
long term I think that's how you do
extremely well in the long run
um the next thing that I would tell
people is
look no matter what you're doing in life
whether it's personal or professional
you gotta love what you're doing what's
the point of doing something in life if
you don't love it life is short everyone
says oh you got to do stuff that makes
you the most money or whatnot cut back
on your expenses it's okay spending less
money it's better to do what you love
than just doing what makes you money
right
some good thoughts there
how much uh time do you spend on your
phone every single day need
oh that's a lot I don't know what the
time is but I charge my phone at least
twice a day
so you are your screen time is at least
six hours a day
probably I know I talk at least on the
phone if I had a guess at least four or
five hours on phone calls yes thanks I
thought I'm not I'm the only person
who's addicted to my phone and uh how do
you see future of Instagram
because you have Instagram right now I
think Instagram eventually will be a
much bigger platform than Facebook
itself or met uh it'll be the main
platform it's a much better social
network than Facebook is
I know this is the same company but if
you look at what a lot of people use
it's easier to use on your phone less
clutter it's simplistic it's a better
way to connect you get much more
engagement not just as a marketer but as
an individual if you're just looking to
connect with people there's much more
engagement on Instagram uh that we're
seeing than you cannot get on Facebook
discipline to follow with respect to
your personal brand what it is that you
have been doing consistently regardless
of what
so you're saying is there a discipline
that I follow to grow my personal brand
is that yes yes do it for a long time
keep giving value but you can't achieve
it within one year or two years three
years five years you gotta think 10 plus
your Horizon and most people don't but
that's how you win you just think very
long term keep giving value No One's
Gonna evangelize you and follow you over
what they hear just on one video or one
live stream but if you continually help
people out and you do what's best for
others and you genuinely care to help
people in the long run you'll build your
personal brand
wow cool
and last question of the evening what is
that one thing you don't like about
digital marketing industry
uh
the one thing I don't like but I can't
change it is the platforms have so much
control
so
they just change overnight right yeah
they can change overnight and they can
Crush so many businesses and what I mean
by this is like
I've seen you know like a single mother
you know have a business and be able to
provide for a family because of Facebook
and then Facebook child changes her
algorithm and then she can't pay her
rent the next few months and then she's
in trouble right and it kind of sucks
hi
it's so so very good thought actually I
sometimes feel that they're just not we
just manipulated by these platforms
every other day and they control our
thoughts
um we just don't know when things may
just change all right Neil uh this was a
great 34 minutes session with you
um I have to tell this that there's
always so much to learn
so when I sent a message to Neil that we
are doing this session so Neil replied
yes let's do it and yesterday I said
Neil Neil the topic is gonna be a little
intense and I'm going to send you a
questions Neil said I don't need
questions it's a live session let's keep
it live so this is just not scripted it
just doesn't know what questions are
coming next but I like the promptness
and you just answer it with so much up
inside it shows the amount of experience
that you have it's always pleasure
connecting with you Neil it's always
pleasure learning from you thank you for
taking your time out and lots of love to
your children and to your family have a
great day today
you too and thank you very much for
doing this and for everyone who take the
time to attend really appreciate you
guys taking the time out of your busy
day I know you guys didn't have to be
here so uh we both appreciate that as
well